README.md, before:

# Stellarium
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Stellarium/stellarium.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/latest)
[![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/Stellarium/stellarium.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/latest)
[![Github All Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/Stellarium/stellarium/total.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases)
[![Backers and sponsors](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/stellarium.svg?style=flat)](https://opencollective.com/stellarium)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Stellarium/stellarium)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/sw8j9l8q95ejkalo?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/alex-w/stellarium)
[![Coverity Scan](https://img.shields.io/coverity/scan/2098.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/stellarium-stellarium)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Stellarium/stellarium/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/Stellarium/stellarium)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/stellarium/stellarium/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/stellarium/stellarium)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/Stellarium/stellarium/alerts/)
[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/Stellarium/stellarium/context:cpp)

Stellarium is a free open source planetarium for your computer. It shows a realistic sky
in 3D, just like what you see with the naked eye, binoculars or a telescope.

[www.stellarium.org](https://www.stellarium.org)

## Installation Instructions & Quick Start

Please refer to the [User Guide, Getting Started section](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/download/v0.20.2/stellarium_user_guide-0.20.2-1.pdf).

## Get & build the code

Refer to our [wiki page](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/wiki).

## Full References and Credits

See the [full credit file](CREDITS.md).

## Contributing to Stellarium

See the [contributing guideline](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute! List of contributors [on Github](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/graphs/contributors) (code contributors) and [on Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#contributors) (financial contributors).

## Our backers & sponsors

Thank you to all [our backers and sponsors](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/blob/master/BACKERS.md)!  Become a [backer](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#backer) or [sponsor](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#sponsor).

Commit message:

Added instructions for building Stellarium from source code and removed outdated docs (#1182)
* Remove Stellarium Command Reference

* Added primitive building instructions

* fix link

* Improve building instructions

* Fix linux specifics

* Fix packaging instructions

* obvious fixes

* another obvious fix

* fix (?) Fedora/CentOS packages list

* fix package name

* fix missing lib

* added Windows specifics instructions

* typofixes

* typofixes

* Update README.md

* A few spelling corrections and minor additions.

Co-authored-by: Georg Zotti <Georg.Zotti@univie.ac.at>

README.md, after:

# Stellarium
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Stellarium/stellarium.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/latest)
[![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/Stellarium/stellarium.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/latest)
[![Github All Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/Stellarium/stellarium/total.svg)](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases)
[![Backers and sponsors](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/stellarium.svg?style=flat)](https://opencollective.com/stellarium)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Stellarium/stellarium)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/sw8j9l8q95ejkalo?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/alex-w/stellarium)
[![Coverity Scan](https://img.shields.io/coverity/scan/2098.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/stellarium-stellarium)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Stellarium/stellarium/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/Stellarium/stellarium)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/stellarium/stellarium/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/stellarium/stellarium)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/Stellarium/stellarium/alerts/)
[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/Stellarium/stellarium.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/Stellarium/stellarium/context:cpp)

Stellarium is a free open source planetarium for your computer. It shows a realistic sky
in 3D, just like what you see with the naked eye, binoculars or a telescope.

[www.stellarium.org](https://www.stellarium.org)

## Installation Instructions & Quick Start

Please refer to the [User Guide, Getting Started section](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/releases/download/v0.20.2/stellarium_user_guide-0.20.2-1.pdf).

## Get & build the code

See instructions to [building Stellarium from source code](BUILDING.md).

## Full References and Credits

See the [full credit file](CREDITS.md).

## Contributing to Stellarium

See the [contributing guideline](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute! List of contributors [on Github](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/graphs/contributors) (code contributors) and [on Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#contributors) (financial contributors).

## Our backers & sponsors

Thank you to all [our backers and sponsors](https://github.com/Stellarium/stellarium/blob/master/BACKERS.md)!  Become a [backer](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#backer) or [sponsor](https://opencollective.com/stellarium#sponsor).
